---
title: "Bootstrapping the three-loop hexagon"
excerpt: Paper and ancillary files.
header:
   teaser: 1108_4461_wloops.png
   overlay_color: "#5e616c"
   overlay_image: 1108_4461_wloops.png
   overlay_filter: .6
categories:
- amplitudes
tags:
- "supersymmetry 4"
- "gauge field theory yang-mills"
- "multi-regge"
- "wilson loop"
- "duality"
- "operator product expansion"
- "bfkl equation"
author: John_Joseph
pinned: true
---
{% include base_path %}

# Link(s):
Paper and ancilary files.
  * [Bootstrapping the three-loop hexagon](https://arxiv.org/abs/1108.4461)
  * [ancilary files](https://arxiv.org/src/1108.4461/anc)

# Author(s):
Lance J. Dixon, James M. Drummond, Johannes M. Henn

# Abstract:
We consider the hexagonal Wilson loop dual to the six-point MHV amplitude in planar N=4 super Yang-Mills theory. We apply constraints from the operator product expansion in the near-collinear limit to the symbol of the remainder function at three loops. Using these constraints, and assuming a natural ansatz for the symbol's entries, we determine the symbol up to just two undetermined constants. In the multi-Regge limit, both constants drop out from the symbol, enabling us to make a non-trivial confirmation of the BFKL prediction for the leading-log approximation. This result provides a strong consistency check of both our ansatz for the symbol and the duality between Wilson loops and MHV amplitudes. Furthermore, we predict the form of the full three-loop remainder function in the multi-Regge limit, beyond the leading-log approximation, up to a few constants representing terms not detected by the symbol. Our results confirm an all-loop prediction for the real part of the remainder function in multi-Regge 3-->3 scattering. In the multi-Regge limit, our result for the remainder function can be expressed entirely in terms of classical polylogarithms. For generic six-point kinematics other functions are required.