---
title: "Simplifying Multiloop Integrands and Ultraviolet Divergences of Gauge Theory and Gravity Amplitudes"
excerpt: Paper and ancillary files.
header:
   teaser: 1201_5366_GeneralJacobi.png
   overlay_color: "#5e616c"
   overlay_image: 1201_5366_GeneralJacobi.png
   overlay_filter: .6
categories:
- integrands
tags:
- "04.65.+e"
- "11.30.pb"
- "11.15.bt"
- "11.55.bq"
- "supersymmetry 4"
- "supergravity 8"
- "gauge field theory duality"
- "loop integral 0"
- "gauge field theory yang-mills supersymmetry"
- "ultraviolet"
- "kinematics"
- "color"
- "scattering amplitude"
author: John_Joseph
pinned: true
---
{% include base_path %}

# Link(s):
Paper and ancilary files.
  * [Simplifying Multiloop Integrands and Ultraviolet Divergences of Gauge Theory and Gravity Amplitudes](https://arxiv.org/abs/1201.5366)
  * [ancilary files](https://arxiv.org/src/1201.5366/anc)

# Author(s):
Z. Bern, J. J. M. Carrasco, L. J. Dixon, H. Johansson, R. Roiban

# Abstract:
We use the duality between color and kinematics to simplify the construction of the complete four-loop four-point amplitude of N=4 super-Yang-Mills theory, including the nonplanar contributions. The duality completely determines the amplitude's integrand in terms of just two planar graphs. The existence of a manifestly dual gauge-theory amplitude trivializes the construction of the corresponding N=8 supergravity integrand, whose graph numerators are double copies (squares) of the N=4 super-Yang-Mills numerators. The success of this procedure provides further nontrivial evidence that the duality and double-copy properties hold at loop level. The new form of the four-loop four-point supergravity amplitude makes manifest the same ultraviolet power counting as the corresponding N=4 super-Yang-Mills amplitude. We determine the amplitude's ultraviolet pole in the critical dimension of D=11/2, the same dimension as for N=4 super-Yang-Mills theory. Strikingly, exactly the same combination of vacuum integrals (after simplification) describes the ultraviolet divergence of N=8 supergravity as the subleading-in-1/N_c^2 single-trace divergence in N=4 super-Yang-Mills theory.