---
title: "Local integrands for the five-point amplitude in planar N=4 SYM up to five loops"
excerpt: Paper and ancillary files.
header:
   teaser: 1312_1163_f1.png
   overlay_color: "#5e616c"
   overlay_image: 1312_1163_f1.png
   overlay_filter: .6
categories:
- integrands
tags:
- "supersymmetric gauge theory"
- "scattering amplitudes"
- "extended supersymmetry"
- "supersymmetry 4"
- "n-point function 4"
- "parity"
- "correlation function"
- "energy-momentum"
- "multiplet"
- "duality"
- "scattering amplitude"
- "graph theory"
- "color"
author: John_Joseph
pinned: true
---
{% include base_path %}

# Link(s):
Paper and ancilary files.
  * [Local integrands for the five-point amplitude in planar N=4 SYM up to five loops](https://arxiv.org/abs/1312.1163)
  * [ancilary files](https://arxiv.org/src/1312.1163/anc)

# Author(s):
Raquel G. Ambrosio, Burkhard Eden, Timothy Goddard, Paul Heslop, Charles Taylor

# Abstract:
Integrands for colour ordered scattering amplitudes in planar N=4 SYM are dual to those of correlation functions of the energy-momentum multiplet of the theory. The construction can relate amplitudes with different numbers of legs. By graph theory methods the integrand of the four-point function of energy-momentum multiplets has been constructed up to six loops in previous work. In this article we extend this analysis to seven loops and use it to construct the full integrand of the five-point amplitude up to five loops, and in the parity even sector to six loops. All results, both parity even and parity odd, are obtained in a concise local form in dual momentum space and can be displayed efficiently through graphs. We have verified agreement with other local formulae both in terms of supertwistors and scalar momentum integrals as well as BCJ forms where those exist in the literature, i.e. up to three loops. Finally we note that the four-point correlation function can be extracted directly from the four-point amplitude and so this uncovers a direct link from four- to five-point amplitudes.