---
title: "Gravitational Radiation from Color-Kinematics Duality"
excerpt: Paper and ancillary files.
header:
   teaser: defaultPicture.jpg
   overlay_color: "#5e616c"
   overlay_image: defaultPicture.jpg
   overlay_filter: .6
categories:
- amplitudes
tags:
- "classical theories of gravity"
- "scattering amplitudes"
- "gravitation dilaton"
- "gauge field theory yang mills"
- "radiation classical"
- "higher order 1"
- "kinematics"
- "duality"
- "jacobi identity"
- "gravitational radiation"
- "s matrix"
author: John_Joseph
pinned: true
---
{% include base_path %}

# Link(s):
Paper and ancilary files.
  * [Gravitational Radiation from Color-Kinematics Duality](https://arxiv.org/abs/1806.07388)
  * [ancilary files](https://arxiv.org/src/1806.07388/anc)

# Author(s):
Chia-Hsien Shen

# Abstract:
We perturbatively calculate classical radiation in Yang-Mills theory and dilaton gravity, to next-to-leading order in couplings. The radiation is sourced by the scattering of two relativistic massive scalar sources with the dynamical effect taken into account, corresponding to the post-Minkowskian regime in gravity. We show how to arrange the Yang-Mills radiation such that the duality between colors and kinematics is manifest, including the three-term Jacobi identity. The search for duality-satisfying expressions exploits an auxiliary bi-adjoint scalar theory as a guide for locality. The double copy is obtained by replacing the color factors in Yang-Mills with kinematic counterparts, following Bern-Carrasco-Johansson construction in S- matrix. On the gravity side, the radiation is directly computed at the third post-Minkowskian order with massive sources. We find perfect agreement between observables in dilaton gravity and the Yang-Mills double copy. This non-trivially generalizes the leading-order rules by Goldberger and Ridgway. For the first time, the kinematic Jacobi identity appears beyond field-theory S-matrix, suggesting that the color-kinematics duality holds more generally. Our results offer a path for simplifying analytical calculations in post-Minkowskian regime.