---
title: "Differential equations from unitarity cuts: nonplanar hexa-box integrals"
excerpt: Paper and ancillary files.
header:
   teaser: 1807_11522_triBox.png
   overlay_color: "#5e616c"
   overlay_image: 1807_11522_triBox.png
   overlay_filter: .6
categories:
- amplitudes
tags:
- "perturbative qcd"
- "scattering amplitudes"
- "differential equations"
- "unitarity"
- "topology"
- "quantum chromodynamics scattering amplitude"
- "factorization"
- "regularization dimensional"
- "loop integral"
- "n point function 5"
- "feynman graph"
author: John_Joseph
pinned: true
---
{% include base_path %}

# Link(s):
Paper and ancilary files.
  * [Differential equations from unitarity cuts: nonplanar hexa-box integrals](https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.11522)
  * [ancilary files](https://arxiv.org/src/1807.11522/anc)

# Author(s):
Samuel Abreu, Ben Page, Mao Zeng

# Abstract:
We compute $\epsilon$-factorized differential equations for all dimensionally-regularized integrals of the nonplanar hexa-box topology, which contribute for instance to 2-loop 5-point QCD amplitudes. A full set of pure integrals is presented. For 5-point planar topologies, Gram determinants which vanish in $4$ dimensions are used to build compact expressions for pure integrals. Using unitarity cuts and computational algebraic geometry, we obtain a compact IBP system which can be solved in 8 hours on a single CPU core, overcoming a major bottleneck for deriving the differential equations. Alternatively, assuming prior knowledge of the alphabet of the nonplanar hexa-box, we reconstruct analytic differential equations from 30 numerical phase-space points, making the computation almost trivial with current techniques. We solve the differential equations to obtain the values of the master integrals at the symbol level. Full results for the differential equations and solutions are included as supplementary material.