---
title: "Building Bases of Loop Integrands"
excerpt: Paper and ancillary files.
header:
   teaser: defaultPicture.jpg
   overlay_color: "#5e616c"
   overlay_image: defaultPicture.jpg
   overlay_filter: .6
categories:
- integrands
tags:
- "scattering amplitudes"
- "1/n expansion"
- "gauge symmetry"
- "field theory massless"
- "yang mills supersymmetry"
- "dimension 4"
- "gauge field theory yang mills"
- "ultraviolet"
- "scattering amplitude"
- "mass spectrum"
- "multiplicity"
- "buildings"
- "helicity"
- "loop integral"
author: John_Joseph
pinned: true
---
{% include base_path %}

# Link(s):
Paper and ancilary files.
  * [Building Bases of Loop Integrands](https://arxiv.org/abs/2007.13905)
  * [ancilary files](https://arxiv.org/src/2007.13905/anc)

# Author(s):
Jacob L. Bourjaily, Enrico Herrmann, Cameron Langer, Jaroslav Trnka

# Abstract:
We describe a systematic approach to the construction of loop-integrand bases at arbitrary loop-order, sufficient for the representation of general quantum field theories. We provide a graph-theoretic definition of `power-counting' for multi-loop integrands beyond the planar limit, and show how this can be used to organize bases according to ultraviolet behavior. This allows amplitude integrands to be constructed iteratively. We illustrate these ideas with concrete applications. In particular, we describe complete integrand bases at two loops sufficient to represent arbitrary-multiplicity amplitudes in four (or fewer) dimensions in any massless quantum field theory with the ultraviolet behavior of the Standard Model or better. We also comment on possible extensions of our framework to arbitrary (including regulated) numbers of dimensions, and to theories with arbitrary mass spectra and charges. At three loops, we describe a basis sufficient to capture all `leading-(transcendental-)weight' contributions of any four-dimensional quantum theory; for maximally supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory, this basis should be sufficient to represent all scattering amplitude integrands in the theory---for generic helicities and arbitrary multiplicity.