---
title: Radiative Classical Gravitational Observables at $\mathcal O(G^3)$ from Scattering Amplitudes
excerpt: Paper and ancillary files.
header:
   teaser: 2104_03957_graph_1.png
   overlay_color: "#5e616c"
   overlay_image: 2104_03957_graph_1.png
   overlay_filter: .6
categories:
- integrands
tags:
- gravitation classical
- black hole scattering
- radiation effect
- scattering amplitude
- unitarity
- mathematical methods
- supergravity 8
- eikonal
- loop integral
author: John_Joseph
pinned: true
---
{% include base_path %}

# Link(s):
Paper and ancilary files.
  * [Radiative Classical Gravitational Observables at $\mathcal O(G^3)$ from Scattering Amplitudes](https://arxiv.org/abs/2104.03957)
  * [ancilary files](https://arxiv.org/src/2104.03957/anc)

# Author(s):
Enrico Herrmann, Julio Parra-Martinez, Michael S. Ruf, Mao Zeng

# Abstract:
We compute classical gravitational observables for the scattering of two spinless black holes in general relativity and $\mathcal N {=} 8$ supergravity in the formalism of Kosower, Maybee, and O'Connell (KMOC). We focus on the gravitational impulse with radiation reaction and the radiated momentum in black hole scattering at $\mathcal O(G^3)$ to all orders in the velocity. These classical observables require the construction and evaluation of certain loop-level quantities which are greatly simplified by harnessing recent advances from scattering amplitudes and collider physics. In particular, we make use of generalized unitarity to construct the relevant loop integrands, employ reverse unitarity, the method of regions, integration-by-parts (IBP), and (canonical) differential equations to simplify and evaluate all loop and phase-space integrals to obtain the classical gravitational observables of interest to two-loop order. The KMOC formalism naturally incorporates radiation effects which enables us to explore these classical quantities beyond the conservative two-body dynamics. From the impulse and the radiated momentum, we extract the scattering angle and the radiated energy. Finally, we discuss universality of the impulse in the high-energy limit and the relation to the eikonal phase.